Hello there, my name is Graham Verbeer, a member of Newport based hip hop comedy group
Goldie Looking Chain.
I have been a DJ around Newport for years and I do some shifts in Diverse with my friends
Paul and Matt.
Gigs, gigs, how long have I been going to gigs?
I think my first ever gig was The Levelers at Newport Centre with Credit to the Nation
and Chumbawumba.
Right, and I was about 14.
I wasn't allowed to go to see therapy in TJs because my mum was scared of TJs at that point
because I was quite young, so I was only about 13.
So I think it was a trade off, I couldn't go and see therapy, they had just done an
album called Pleasure Death which also terrified my mother.
So she said, you can go see The Levelers, they look like nice chaps.
And I went to see The Levelers and the Credits to the Nation were amazing.
But yeah, that was my first gig in the Newport Centre.
Oh, but it's not really actually, come on, that's the first gig I go to on my own.
Can I just also say though, I did go to a lot of gigs with my parents in the Newport
Centre including Tim Machine with lead singer David Bowie, my hero.
So I have seen David Bowie in the Newport Centre.
That was amazing.
But my parents thought he was going to do Space Oddity and Rebel Rebel and he didn't,
he did a lot of thrash metal sort of stuff and they hated it and they said they were
never taking me to another gig again.
Hence, the next gig I went to was The Levelers on my own with my friends.
So most memorable gig, I'm going to have to be a bit narcissistic and include a gig I
did because it was a great day and it would be the TJs in the Square, which was in John
Frost Square.
It was in tribute to John Sokolo who ran and TJs and owned TJs for many years and we've
all done our time in TJs as indie boys, you know, and indie girls.
We all had a great time in TJs back in the 90s, 80s, 90s.
It was a great place to go.
So it was a great day of Newport bands and we were headlining but I managed to sort of
hang out with all the bands I used to follow around Newport, you know, and my favourite
were Nova Kane.
I sort of hung out with Steve, the singer, and I was a bit fanboy-y and he was all chuffed.
He was like, oh my God, you guys are great.
I love you guys.
And I'm like, no, no, no, you are great.
Because I used to go and see, I saw Elastica, I saw all sorts of gigs where Nova Kane would
be usually third on the bill, 60 foot dolls then and then the band who were coming into
Newport.
But I'd always go to see Nova Kane.
I'd follow Nova Kane around and they were my favourite.
But it was cool just to play with them, see them get back on stage.
That was 2010, 2010.
There was all sorts.
Disco, my pal Ed, Casey in Disco and Sam from La Pub.
They reformed for a day.
We had John Robb down here from the Membranes.
John Robb and he was big mates with John, Ticolo and Goldblade, yeah.
Which I'm not sure what they played as that day.
It might have been Goldblade.
But yeah, but he's in the Membranes as well.
I'm not sure what Darling Buds were on.
They had some good hits with our mates in that as well, Matt and all.
And who else was on that day?
It was a great day of all sorts.
I'm trying to think, who else?
Us.
It was a great day and everyone was sort of jumping around John Frost Square.
By the time we got on, it was quite late and everyone jumping up and down John Frost Square.
And I just thought, why have we not done this before?
And then John Frost Square didn't exist anymore and you couldn't really do it
because it didn't have that sort of space.
But it looked, from the stage, it looked amazing.
Us being Newport Boys, we just played all sorts of festivals and things.
But that, to me, was just wonderful.
Seeing all my people jumping up and down in the middle of John Frost Square.
Yeah, because I used to DJ on a night called Drop Your Pants.
And it was a big indie night, wasn't it?
For years before I started doing it as well with John and Malc and all.
It was a massive night.
So all these generations that went through that night, or you go to TJs,
it'd be the same sort of crowd and bits and pieces.
And then you'd have maybe a rock, a harder rock crowd in TJs some nights.
And of course, there was the pop crowd who would just go out
and go to the pubs and the Meringer crowd.
And all of those type of people from all those different years did turn up for that.
Yeah, because, you know, it basically, of course,
TJs did have a bit of maybe sort of other type of nights, didn't they?
It wasn't just rock.
It's just a fascinating place to be, TJs, back in the 80s, 90s.
People tell me that the 80s were better.
I miss them.
But, you know, TJs was great, didn't they, 90s?
Yeah, but it was just nice to see all sorts of people turn out
from all the different ages and then just come together for John and TJs,
but also for Newport Music.
And we've always had that.
We were the New Seattle, you know, remember that?
But we were the New Seattle and, you know, we had great bands
like Dean and the Cowboy Killers,
Tea Rooms of Babylon, remember them?
They were a good band.
And as they say, Novocaine and Flyscreen, Rollercoaster.
Rollercoaster.
That was Sticky's band, wasn't it?
That was Sticky's band.
Loads of great bands.
60 Foot Dolls, obviously, as well.
All these people were in TJs and suddenly they were in bands,
you know, where you would go to the Meringer, the Mannix would be in there.
And, you know, and they'd be all bands everywhere.
And it was a it was a it was great.
Everyone was in a band and forming like sort of arts, you know,
not necessarily bands that had an eye on the charts,
but I just wanted to do some music.
It was a creative place.
It's always has been.
So that's that's what TJs was great for.
And that's what that was a celebration of TJs in the Square.
Wonderful. Bring them back.